README.md, before:

# Intro
The devcontainer from OneFootball data engineering. Doom Emacs already configured for Python development.
* https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/reality-vs-expectations-how-we-have-solved-problem-hiring-miorin-dcpcf

# Changelog
## V1.1
* Faster post-create container. Now doom emacs is first sync during the build time.
* Zellij new bindings like tmux to avoid conflict with doom emacs. Use wezterm SendKey to remap to something more convinient.
* Zellij more real estate by removing the status plugin at the bottom.
* Better starship configuration.
* Smaller atuin interface. The full screen version was losing the context.
* Fix the umask madness of codespaces.
* fish as a vterm shell.
* Doom Emacs
  * Disable workspaces
  * User ranger + icons instead of dired
  * Enable lsp and tree-sitter
  * Enable OSC 52
  * Add python support
  * Isolated emacs per developer.
* Fix cursor in fish. Now you have line for insert and block for command like vim and emacs
* Workaround for the change directory in fish. See https://github.com/zellij-org/zellij/issues/3184
* 
## V1.0
* Initial import

# Setup
``` sh
# locally
gh cs create -R motain/codespaces-data-engineering -m basicLinux32gb
gh cs ssh
# inside the container
zellij attach --create <name of the session>
emacs
# check the creation of the devcontainer for problems
tail -f /workspaces/.codespaces/.persistedshare/creation.log
# Vscode development
gh cs code
```

# Sharing your terminal with multiple cursor
Repeat all the steps above till zellij.
* https://zellij.dev/news/multiplayer-sessions/

# Development
``` sh
devcontainer build --workspace-folder .
devcontainer up --workspace-folder .
```

```
Co-authored-by: Alberto Miorin <109069886+alberto-of@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Valery Lavrentiev <valery.lavrentiev@onefootball.com>
Co-authored-by: Marlon Rozindo <151554259+felixmarlon@users.noreply.github.com>
```

Commit message:

feat: V2.0
Co-authored-by: Alberto Miorin <109069886+alberto-of@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Intro
The devcontainer from OneFootball data engineering.
* https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/reality-vs-expectations-how-we-have-solved-problem-hiring-miorin-dcpcf

# Changelog
## V2.0
* Use public image instead of pre-build.
* Emacs client everywhere (before Zellij, git commit, and scrolledit).
* CWD doesn't block Emacs.
* Better binding for Zellij, similar to Chrome.
## V1.1
* Faster post-create container. Now doom emacs is first sync during the build time.
* Zellij new bindings like tmux to avoid conflict with doom emacs. Use wezterm SendKey to remap to something more convinient.
* Zellij more real estate by removing the status plugin at the bottom.
* Better starship configuration.
* Smaller atuin interface. The full screen version was losing the context.
* Fix the umask madness of codespaces.
* fish as a vterm shell.
* Doom Emacs
  * Disable workspaces
  * User ranger + icons instead of dired
  * Enable lsp and tree-sitter
  * Enable OSC 52
  * Add python support
  * Isolated emacs per developer.
* Fix cursor in fish. Now you have line for insert and block for command like vim and emacs
* Workaround for the change directory in fish. See https://github.com/zellij-org/zellij/issues/3184
* 
## V1.0
* Initial import

# Setup
``` sh
# locally
gh cs create -R motain/codespaces-data-engineering -m basicLinux32gb
gh cs ssh
# inside the container
zellij attach --create <name of the session>
emacs
# check the creation of the devcontainer for problems
tail -f /workspaces/.codespaces/.persistedshare/creation.log
# Vscode development
gh cs code
```

# Sharing your terminal with multiple cursor
Repeat all the steps above up to zellij to test the sharing your terminal feature
* https://zellij.dev/news/multiplayer-sessions/

# Development
``` sh
# local feature development
devcontainer build --workspace-folder src
devcontainer up --workspace-folder src
```

# Publish
The token generated by Github for Codespaces cannot push an image to `ghcr`. You can create a personal token and login again.

``` sh
docker login ghcr.io -u USER
devcontainer build --workspace-folder src --push true --image-name ghcr.io/ORG/NAME
```

# Authors
```
Co-authored-by: Alberto Miorin <109069886+alberto-of@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Valery Lavrentiev <valery.lavrentiev@onefootball.com>
Co-authored-by: Marlon Rozindo <151554259+felixmarlon@users.noreply.github.com>
```
